Living Hall Spatial Foundation V1 — live smoke diagnosis (2026-09-27)

Test URL: http://localhost:8765/index.html?livingHallSpatial=1&livingHallSpatialDebug=1
Parsed values: livingHallSpatial === '1', livingHallSpatialDebug === '1'.
The separate file:// tab had neither flag; it cannot activate the prototype.
The loaded js/meeow-hall-spatial.js module supplied the room, projection, and
controller to the index.html setup. In the enabled localhost run, the live
context was hall=gotham, room=living, mode=map, view=room. The measured rendered
map content was 758×758 CSS pixels at the normal browser width.

Before correction, the first failed user-visible stage was viewport visibility:
the rug route was below the fold when the controller began, so Jason reached B
before the user scrolled to it. This was not an eligibility or cancellation
failure. The debug SVG mounted, but its dynamic :viewBox became a lowercase
viewbox attribute in the in-DOM template. Its 1024 coordinates were therefore
painted unscaled in the 758-pixel stage, making the marker disagree with the
cat. These two live findings explain the absent visible motion and misleading
debug overlay.

Narrow correction: wait until both projected route endpoints are in the
viewport before starting the existing one-shot controller. A capture-phase
scroll listener rechecks the gate; projection still uses measured map-stage
content bounds and never changes canonical x/y. A static SVG viewBox scales
the existing debug geometry. The development-only diagnostic panel reports
flags, module, Hall/room/view, stage size, requested/selected resident,
eligibility, rejection, controller/cancel state, foot, target, and each visible
resident's exact gate reasons. No normal-play display or movement authority
was added.

Gotham living-room resident eligibility observed in the enabled localhost run:
ID                Room/spot                Form  Available  Pose      Wrapper  Eligible  Rejection
gotham-dick       living/bookshelf-upper  CAT   yes        standing  yes      no        not-living-rug
gotham-jason      living/living-rug        CAT   yes        standing  yes      yes       —
gotham-tim        living/bookshelf-middle CAT   yes        standing  yes      no        not-living-rug
gotham-damian     living/scratch-board    CAT   yes        standing  yes      no        not-living-rug
gotham-stephanie  living/sofa-seat        CAT   yes        standing  yes      no        not-living-rug
gotham-barbara    living/bookshelf-top    CAT   yes        lying     yes      no        not-living-rug, not-standing
All six had no explicit saved mapPoint; the listed room/spot came from the
existing map placement resolver. Zero cats were rejected solely for posture.
Standing remains a prototype selection gate to avoid moving a resting pose;
its removal is unnecessary for this live state. The renderer's ground anchor
could spatially move any current pose without changing posture authority, but
this pass intentionally retains the existing limited pose scope.

Requested-ID checks: gotham-jason resolved and ran. gotham-dick resolved but
reported not-living-rug and did not fall back to Jason. Stage states observed:
idle with route-offscreen; waiting at A=(443,716); arrived at B=(560,690).
The actual cat, badge, and name remained under one positioned wrapper.
At arrival the SVG foot center differed from the wrapper foot by under 0.004
CSS pixels at desktop and at a 420×800 narrow viewport. Room switching to
dining cleared the wrapper/foot with cancelReason=hall-room-or-view-changed.
The focused controller fixture separately checks cancellation before arrival.

Status acceptance, scene acceptance, availability, and page-hidden preemption
remain unchanged except that development diagnostics now name their reasons.
Movement has no save or AI call site. No sprite, art, status, or map-point data
was changed.

Intentional exact guard/fixture expectation changes:
- tests/reviewed-living-hall-guards.mjs: index.html SHA-256 previous
  1278a1703f6e0dc6cfecbde9d7d17729f22d5dde63043a7be67ab9debaa5ea57,
  new 04d8d617d15ad6f2c09b34bbec147d857363b4c17a0e91de74af58189ed69166.
  The guard still requires exact current bytes before restoring the unchanged
  historical Shop boundary hash.
- The exact visualHint reference bridge in the same guard previously applied
  index.html line offsets +34/+166; it now applies +61/+254 because this pass
  inserted 27 development style/template lines before early references and
  61 setup lines before later references. Source strings and occurrence counts
  did not change; the historical visualHint report was not regenerated.
- tests/living-hall-spatial-foundation-v1.fixture.mjs: the shared-wrapper
  assertion now includes the development-only data-spatial-id attribute; the
  cancellation assertions now include the actual diagnostic reason argument.
  Existing ground-anchor, one-wrapper, accepted-event, and no-write/no-AI
  assertions remain. New checks cover offscreen waiting and the SVG viewBox.
